Warehouse doc updates (#2533)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/storage/warehouses/redshift-useful-sql.md

---
title: Useful SQL Queries for Redshift
---

> Below you'll find a library of some of the most useful SQL queries customers use in their Redshift warehouses. You can run these right in your Redshift instance with little to no modification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you'll find a library of some of the most useful SQL queries customers use in their Redshift warehouses. You can run these in your Redshift instance with little to no modification.
```

> success "Ways to improve query speed"

> > If you're looking to improve the speed of your queries, check out Segment's [Speeding Up Redshift Queries](/docs/connections/storage/warehouses/redshift-tuning/) page! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you're looking to improve the speed of your queries, check out Segment's [Speeding Up Redshift Queries](/docs/connections/storage/warehouses/redshift-tuning/) page.
```

You can use SQL queries for the following tasks:
- [Tracking events](#tracking-events)
- [Defining sessions](#defining-sessions)
- [Identifying users](#identifying-users)
- [Groups to accounts](#groups-to-accounts)

> note " "
> If you're looking for SQL queries for warehouses other than Redshift, check out some of Segment's [Analyzing with SQL guides](/docs/connections/storage/warehouses/index/#analyzing-with-sql).

## Tracking events

> The track allows you to record any actions your users perform. A track call takes three parameters: the userId, the event, and any optional properties.

Reviewer: Track call?

Author: Fixed in commit 2c0ec6a8bb6dfeb1972843928e2933ee34c5a092.

Here's a basic track call:

```javascript
analytics.track('Completed Order',
  item: 'pants',
  color: 'blue'
  size: '32x32'
  payment: 'credit card'
});
```

A completed order track call might look like this:

```javascript
analytics.track('Completed Order', {
 item: 'shirt',
 color: 'green'
 size: 'Large'
 payment: 'paypal'
});
```

Each track call is stored as a distinct row in a single Redshift table called `tracks`. To get a table of your completed orders, you can run the following query: 

```sql
select *
from initech.tracks
where event = 'completed_order'
```

That SQL query returns a table that looks like this:

![](images/sql-redshift-table-1.jpg)

But why are there columns in the table that weren't a part of the track call, like `event_id`? 

> This is because the track method (for client-side libraries) automatically includes additional properties of the event, like `event_id`, `sent_at`, and `user_id`!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the track method (for client-side libraries) includes additional properties of the event, like `event_id`, `sent_at`, and `user_id`!
```

### Grouping events by day
If you want to know how many orders were completed over a span of time, you can use the `date()` and `count` function with the `sent_at` timestamp:

```sql
select date(sent_at) as date, count(event)
from initech.tracks
where event = 'completed_order'
group by date
```

> That query will return a table like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That query returns a table like this:
```

| date       | count |
| ---------- | ----- |
| 2021-12-09 | 5     |
| 2021-12-08 | 3     |
| 2021-12-07 | 2     |

> If you wanted to see how many pants and shirts were sold on each of those dates, you can query that using case statements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see the number of pants and shirts that were sold on each of those dates, you can query that using case statements:
```

```sql 
select date(sent_at) as date,
sum(case when item = 'shirt' then 1 else 0 end) as shirts,
sum(case when item = 'pants' then 1 else 0 end) as pants
from initech.tracks
where event = 'completed_order'
group by date
```

That query returns a table like this: 

| date       | shirts | pants |
| ---------- | ------ | ----- |
| 2021-12-09 | 3      | 2     |
| 2021-12-08 | 1      | 2     |
| 2021-12-07 | 2      | 0     |

> ## Defining sessions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Define sessions
```

Segment’s API does not impose any restrictions on your data with regard to user sessions.

Sessions aren’t fundamental facts about the user experience. They’re stories Segment builds around the data to understand how customers actually use the product in their day-to-day lives. And since Segment’s API is about collecting raw, factual data, there's no API for collecting sessions. Segment leaves session interpretation to SQL partners, which let you design how you measure sessions based on how customers use your product.

> For more on why Segment doesn't collect session data at the API level, [check out a blog post here](https://segment.com/blog/facts-vs-stories-why-segment-has-no-sessions-api/)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more on why Segment doesn't collect session data at the API level, [check out a blog post here](https://segment.com/blog/facts-vs-stories-why-segment-has-no-sessions-api/){:target="_blank"}.
```
We can be formal / conversational in tone, but we should avoid using exclamation points.

### How to define user sessions using SQL

> Each of Segment's SQL partners allows you to define sessions based on your specific business needs. With [Looker](https://looker.com), for example, you can take advantage of their persistent derived tables and LookML modeling language to layer sessionization on top of your Segment SQL data. Segment recommends [checking out Looker's approach here](https://segment.com/blog/using-sql-to-define-measure-and-analyze-user-sessions/)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of Segment's SQL partners allow you to define sessions based on your specific business needs. With [Looker](https://looker.com){:target="_blank"}, for example, you can take advantage of their persistent derived tables and LookML modeling language to layer sessionization on top of your Segment SQL data. Segment recommends [checking out Looker's approach here](https://segment.com/blog/using-sql-to-define-measure-and-analyze-user-sessions/).
```

> For defining sessions with raw SQL, a great query and explanation comes from [Mode Analytics](https://mode.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define sessions with raw SQL, a great query and explanation comes from [Mode Analytics](https://mode.com).
```
Please avoid the gerund as much as possible.

> Here’s the query to make it happen, but definitely check Mode Analytics' [blog post](https://blog.modeanalytics.com/finding-user-sessions-sql/) as well. They walk you through the reasoning behind the query, what each portion accomplishes, how you can tweak it to suit your needs, and what kind of further analysis you can do on top of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s the query to make it happen, but read Mode Analytics' [blog post](https://blog.modeanalytics.com/finding-user-sessions-sql/) for more information. Mode walks you through the reasoning behind the query, what each portion accomplishes, how you can tweak it to suit your needs, and the kinds of further analysis you can add on top of it.
```

```sql
-- Finding the start of every session
SELECT *
  FROM (
       SELECT *
              LAG(sent_at,1) OVER (PARTITION BY user_id ORDER BY sent_at) AS last_event
        FROM "your_source".tracks
      ) last
WHERE EXTRACT('EPOCH' FROM sent_at) - EXTRACT('EPOCH' FROM last_event) >= (60 * 10)
   OR last_event IS NULL

-- Mapping every event to its session
SELECT *,
       SUM(is_new_session) OVER (ORDER BY user_id, sent_at ROWS BETWEEN UNBOUNDED PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW) AS global_session_id,
       SUM(is_new_session) OVER (PARTITION BY user_id ORDER BY sent_at ROWS BETWEEN UNBOUNDED PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW) AS user_session_id
  FROM (
       SELECT *,
              CASE WHEN EXTRACT('EPOCH' FROM sent_at) - EXTRACT('EPOCH' FROM last_event) >= (60 * 10) 
                     OR last_event IS NULL 
                   THEN 1 ELSE 0 END AS is_new_session
         FROM (
              SELECT *,
                     LAG(sent_at,1) OVER (PARTITION BY user_id ORDER BY sent_at) AS last_event
                FROM "your_source".tracks
              ) last
       ) final
```

> ## Identifying users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identify users
```

### Historical traits

> The `identify` method ties user attributes to a `userId`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Identify method ties user attributes to a `userId`. 
```

Consistency with Track above. The format for these should be:
- Identify call
- Identify method

```javascript
analytics.identify('bob123',{
  email: 'bob@initech.com',
  plan: 'Free'
});
```
As these user traits change over time, you can continue calling the identify method to update their changes. With this query, you can update Bob’s account plan to “Premium”.

```javascript
analytics.identify('bob123', {
  email: 'bob@initech.com',
  plan: 'Premium'
});
```

Each identify call is stored in a single Redshift table called `identifies`. To see how a user's plan changes over time, you can run the following query: 

```sql
select email, plan, sent_at
from initech.identifies
where email = 'bob@initech.com'
```

This SQL query returns a table of Bob's account information, with each entry representing the state of his account at different time periods:

| user_id | email          | plan    | sent_at             |
| ------- | -------------- | ------- | ------------------- |
| bob123  | bob@intech.com | Premium | 2021-12-20 19:44:03 |
| bob123  | bob@intech.com | Basic   | 2021-12-18 17:48:10 |

> If you want to see what your users looked like at a previous point in time, that data is right there in your `identifies` table! (To get this table for your users, replace ‘initech’ in the SQL query with your source slug).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to see what your users looked like at a previous point in time, you can find that data in the `identifies` table. To get this table for your users, replace ‘initech’ in the SQL query with your source slug.
```

> But what if you only want to see the most recent state of the user? Luckily, you can convert the `identifies` table into a distinct users table by taking the most recent identify call for each account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But what if you only want to see the most recent state of the user? Take the most recent Identify call for each account to convert the `identifies` table into a distinct users table.
```
Took a stab at making the sentence a bit more active-voice.

Author: (Hopefully) resolved in commit 4c1c4c2e9d996d6d95eee6a6d65f1cc84dc38a92.

> ### Converting the identifies table into a users table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Convert the identifies table into a users table
```

> The following query will return your `identifies` table: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query returns the `identifies` table: 
```
